tonight the Prime minister Theresa May, the leader of the Conservative Party on DH, the leader of the Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, face the voters. Welcome to question time. So over the next ninety minutes, the leaders off the two larger parties are going to be quizzed. Our audience here in York. Now this audience is made up like this. Just a third say they intend to vote conservative next week. Same numbers say they're going to vote Labour and the rest either support other parties or have yet to make up their minds. And as ever, you can comment on all of this from home either on Twitter hashtag BBC beauty but also on Facebook as usual on our text number is eight three nine eight one. Push the red button on your remote to see what others are saying on the leaders. This is important. Don't know the questions that are going to be put to them tonight. So first to face our audience, please welcome the leader of the Conservative Party. The Prime Minister Theresa may believing, Prime Minister, Your first question comes from Abigail E talk, please. Why should the public trust anything you say or any of your policies when you have a known track record of broken promises and backtracking during your time as Home secretary And now Prime Minister. Well, thank you, David. Thank you. Thank you, Thank you. Have a girl on DH Come first We'LL say good evening to everybody and thank you for you coming to be an audience that this program tonight, which is important part of the election campaign let me tell you about some of the things that I did as Home Secretary Abigail I said that I would ensure that we were dealing with extremist hate preachers, and I x saluted Mohr than any home secretary before me. I said I would do something about stopping search because I don't think anybody should be stopped and searched on the streets of our country because of the color of their skin. I said I would be tough on crime, and I said I would ensure our police on DH our security services had the powers they need to be able to do their job. And I gave them those in the legislation that I put through on DH. I've made sure that we kept the records of criminals and terrorists on the DNA database. Where is Diane Abbott? Actually wants to wipe them clean, and I don't think that's a good idea, because that helps us catch criminals. So no backtracking, Theo. Broken promises. What were you thinking off? Well, you have backtracked as prime minister, you backtracked when you became leader of the Conservatives and then immediately Prime minister. After the referendum, you said you wouldn't call an election and you did on. Then you have here calling an election. Andi refusing to take part in debates, refusing to answer people's questions, refusing to talk to Jeremy Corbyn on DH. You've backtracked on your social care policy on your entire manifesto. Has holes in it on DH. Everyone else can see that. Well, first of all, Theo, can I just say I'm not refusing to take part in debates because I'm here answering questions from you this audience this evening and that's what I think's important in an election campaign is not politicians arguing amongst each other but actually listening and taking questions from voters on? You mentioned about not holding, saying I wouldn't hold an election and now holding one. You're right. I thought we needed a period of stability when I became prime minister. But what became clear to me when we went through the Article fifty process to trigger the process of leaving the European Union to respect the will of the British people was that other parties wanted to frustrate those brexit negotiations and wanted to frustrate that will of the people that have been expressed in the referendum vote. And, you know, it would've been easy. I could have said Okay, I'm Prime Minister. There's another couple of years going. Why don't I just stay and hang on in the job? But I didn't do that. I've called an election because of Brexit. I was willing to do that because I think this is a really important moment for our country. We've got to get this right. If we get it right. I'm optimistic for the British people because I believe in the British people. But we need to get it right, Theo. Woman there, Who is it that contested you? Because labor have clearly issued a whip to get people to vote for Article fifty being passed. Besides the lib Dems, who have kind of said that they would like another referendum. I don't understand Who is that has contested your leadership for Brexit. Well, you're right. We've got the Article fifty legislation through Parliament. That was important. It's triggered the ability for us to start these negotiations on those negotiations, by the way, start just eleven days after Election Day next week. So whoever comes in his prime minister, whoever comes in as the government has got to be ready to actually get the ball rolling and start those negotiations straightaway. But it was clear through the discussions that we that we had around that time that the other parties did want to frustrate us. And you say you talk about the noble Democrats. I mean, we have a situation at the moment where if Jeremy Corbyn was to get into number ten, he'd be being propped up by the liberal Democrats on the Scotia Lee Scottish Nationalists. You'd have Diane Abbott who can't had up sitting around the Cabinet table. John MacDonald. John McDonnell, Who's a Marxist? Nicholas Dirt. He wants to break our country up on Tim Farron, who wants to take us back into the U the direct opposite of what the British people want. That being said Prime Minister, One of the things that I would like to know is secretly. Do you really regret calling this election now? The polls have moved against you. I'm a Tory and I playing up that we win that you win. But you must feel a little bit of a little bit of remorse. No, no, I know I've been in politics quite a long time on DH. I've always said that every election, the only poll that matters is the one that takes place on polling day. Andi, I think the British people, when they're voting over, he's casting a vote. People here on DH people watching and others have a very simple choice. And it is about who do you trust tohave that leadership to take us to get the best deal for Brexit a Brexit deal in Europe on who's got the will and the vision not just to take us through Brexit, not just to get on with the job of delivering Brexit, but to take us beyond and build a better future for this country where you will you surprise. The polls have gone from a lead of twenty percent when you call the election remorselessly down like that. David, I'm never surprised that things that happened during election. You short, You're that popular. Now you accept your that. I'm never surprised that things that happened during election time campaigns, because the only poll I look at is the one that takes place on election Day. Right. You, sir, You call the election for Bill it for your own political gains. It's nothing to do with good, good of the country of your own political games. No, it's not. So can I just say to you, as I've just said, it would have been the easiest thing in the world for me having become prime minister after the referendum when David Cameron resigned to say, You know, the next next election's not till twenty twenty like this is a good job. I enjoy doing this job I want to do in this job. I do what I believe is the best for Britain. I could have stayed on doing that job for another couple of years, and your called your particle had European great for that. For the good of the Conservative Party, you've called a general election for the good of the Conservative Party and it's gonna backfire on you. No, I called. I called a general election because I believe that the British people have a right to vote and to say who they want to see, leading them through the Brexit negotiations. And I believe they should have a prime minister who has an absolutely resolute determination to respect their will. My party is the only party that is going to respect the will of the British people, get on with the job and deliver a successful brexit coming to Brexit one more point from you. I think it's a very different thing to debate a studio audience. As in debating the other leaders, I think there's been a lot off debating. True, the media wouldn't not be, would not give a more interesting debate. Having you say these things face to face to the other leaders and speak that way about the party policies rather than Tru TV and two journalists thing, I think election campaign should be about getting out and about yes. Answering questions from voters, meeting voters, talking to people across the UK in a whole variety of circumstances, I'm afraid I think that that of actually having that interaction with voters is more useful for the voter and filled the politician. I think anybody wants to be prime minister should be out and about listening to what people are thinking. And I don't think seven politicians just arguing amongst themselves is actually that interesting. All that revealing. Okay, let's we'LL go on, go! Want to go on? Because we talked about the election? Let's go on to talking about brexit. But you've mentioned once or twice Barry Clark, Could we have your question? Barry Clark, please. Good evening. Good evening. If they use that being awkward, why don't we just cut and run and pay no money at all? I've said that I think no deal would be better than a bad deal. Now I'm confident we can get a good deal with the right plan for those negotiations because I think a good deal is in our interests and in the interests of the rest of the U. But we have to be prepared to stand up for for Britain. We have to be prepared to go in there recognizing that we're not willing to accept a bad deal or just war is a bad deal. People are very confused. What you talk all the time about a bad deal which you won't accept. Can you explain what in your mind would be a bad deal? Well, yes, I think On the one hand, David, you've got politicians in Europe, some of whom are talking about punishing the UK for leaving the you. I think what they want to see in terms of that punishment would be a bad deal. And secondly, you've got politicians here in the United Kingdom who seemed to be willing to accept any deal, whatever it is, just for the sake of getting a deal. And I think the danger is they'd be accepting the worst possible deal at the highest possible price themed evening. You always say you want Teo for the whole people Britain. But the brexit was basically voted by fifty two percent. So how do you actually, sir, for the whole country, if just fifty two percent back to the brexit? Well, the first thing I would say is that as I go around and talk to people, individuals, business representatives and others, I find that actually, thie greater majority of opinion here in the U K now is the decision was taken, The public were given their choice. They chose to leave the European Union. Let's just have a government that gets on with it and delivers a good deal on how I would respond for all of those who voted to remain and I voted to remain is to say that now we must make sure we get the negotiations right. We get that good free trade agreement, the continued cooperation, a deep and special partnership with the U, but that also we take this opportunity of brexit new trade deals around the rest of the world, actually seeing how we can build a more prosperous, stronger and fairer Britain. I think we can do that. And I think we can do that because I believe in Britain and I believe in the British people. What? It's curious because just over a year ago, when you were a remain er, uh, and David Cameron got this wrong and he resigned, you got it wrong on DH remained to become prime minister. You said remaining inside the European make European Union makes us more prosperous. Yesterday, you said Brexit makes us more prosperous. I mean? I mean, what? What? Where you at on this? What I I I I set out very carefully before the referendum. Why? I believed on balance we should stay in the u. I also said the sky will not fall in if we leave the EU. What then happened was the British people who had been given the choice. No Parliament decided to say to the public It's your choice. They chose that we should leave the waves going back. T o. We've got to make sure that we can actually use the opportunities that come from Brexit. We've got to grasp those opportunities. But fundamentally, David, the thing I think that matters most in this is being willing to deliver on the will of the people. Not saying Oh, you got it wrong. Let's have a second referendum. But saying you voted, you've chosen. You want a government that's going to do it for you and I say to people If you voted for Brexit, you need to make sure you get it with the government with me and my team who will actually deliver it for you? Yeah, but the people chose made the wrong choice by your book because you were a remainder They made the wrong choice because you were a remainder. So in your mind you must have thought What are they on about On DH Then you said they'LL get richer if they stay. If they leave, they weren't there before. Can you now honestly say there's no difference? Will beget will get richer by leaving just the same as we would have done if we'd remain Which is what I said Is there going to be a price to pay? But I did say at the time that I thought there were advantages on balance and being in the U. But now what I believe we must do is deliver on the will of people, but also make sure we make a success of it. So what I'm doing is Prime Minister is saying let's find those opportunities that will enable us to be more prosperous in the future. All right, too much of me. The man over there, you, sir. And on the far side. Yes. Don't even think you say good evening all the time. But way we've met looks increasingly likely that we are going to have to pay a divorce bill on speculated anything between? Nothing to one hundred billion. Could you quantify in billions of pounds? Straightforward Question. What is a good deal? Well, the I'm not going to give you a figure on that for two reasons. First of all, because we need to go through very carefully. What as part of the negotiation, what rights and obligations thie United Kingdom has. And secondly, because if I gave you a figure here tonight for what I thought would be a good figure, that wouldn't be a very good negotiating stance when I'm sitting down in a fine prime minister in eleven days time with the European Union. But it is his money is it's his. It's his money you're spending. Yes, it was. It's all our money that will be That is taxpayersmoney David. But you don't go into negotiating. Tio. Start saying the thing I want out of this is absolutely want out of this. Is is ex because you can bet your bottom dollar the other side's going to try and make sure you don't get it. Do you think they'LL have to? You'LL have to agree that before they'LL talk about all the other things trade and all the rest of it. Which way did they for? I've been very clear, as indeed has the you on recognizing that we need to negotiate that new relationship with them, which will be about trade but will be about other things, too. So, like cooperation on security and criminal justice, they want to start off by talking about the Phil. I want one of the early discussions to be about the reciprocal arrangement free you citizens and UK citizens. They haven't said that we can't negotiate the trade deal until we've agreed. Bill, what they've said is we need to make sufficient progress on what several of them have also said We need to get on to the trade deal quickly. The woman of the very back you Hello. You've said that You think you can negotiate a good deal, but do you really think that you actually have any real leverage with Brussels? Well, yes, I do. On DH, one of the reasons I think we can negotiate a good deal is because actually, a good deal in trade terms is not just a benefit to the U. K. It's a benefit to businesses in the remaining countries in the remaining in the European Union. So this isn't just about us. It's actually about a relationship that matters to them as well as it matters to us. You have a hit on the right. Just let's pull you up on the common about Diana. But miscalculations made a few minutes ago because Philip Hammond, who's the chancellor of the Exchequer, got twenty billion miscalculation a few weeks ago, I think. Well, what I will say is this, as I said earlier on Diana but wants to be home secretary and she wants to wipe the records of criminals and terrorists from the DNA database, that would mean we could catch fewer criminals on fewer terrorists. You said, Yeah, talk about Brexit on remain ours. I think the voting fifty two percent to forty eight percent. I think you'd lack the confidence in asking the public the electrodes one more time because the voting was so in the middle. What with electricity to do, I think, Nigel Farraj. I made a big mess, I think Michael, go let let the electric the wrong way. And Boris Johnson, their bosses your pace with N. H s three hundred fifty million. We were all told lies. So even people who voted out, perhaps that should be given the second chance. So you should have the confidence to say, Shall we have another vote over? Can I just put it like this? Over the years in the European Union and its its European economic community have been a number of occasions where referendums have bean held in countries. There's one in Ireland, I think, France's example as well, where they voted against what the you was suggesting. Basically, the bureaucrats and the you politicians turn around those countries and said, You've got it wrong, have another vote. We want you to come up with what we think is the right arm. You know, that time was that well that you can come back in a minute at that time. I think collectively, people here in the UK said, you know what? That's not the way to behave. If the people have given their choice, let's listen to the people and actually deliver on. It's on the wrong information. Theo, Wait. Given the right information to choose from, Okay? You, sir? Earlier this week, Prime Minister, you said that you wanted the people of Britain to trust you with regards to Brexit on DH when in the election How can the people trust you when your manifesto is not giving them any detail as two figures or what you propose to do with the other things in government? Well, what? My manifesto, Right? I use that word trust and I used it because that is actually what politicians, when we go out when we ask people to vote for us, we ask are asking people to trust us in the in the role that we are being want to be voted into. And I if I look at our manifesto, what our manifesto has done is to be open with people about the great challenges that we believe that this country faces on that need to be addressed by whoever is in government. We've been open about that. I've also been open that there will be some hard choices to be made in addressing those various challenges. You talk about figures in our manifesto. Of course, we have already have budgets that have been set out in the autumn. Statement is government on DH in the spring budget on We've added some figures in various areas, like our extra funding on the N HS and schools in the manifesto. But I think it's important that the next government sets out for people the really big issues that are going to have to be addressed by whoever is in government on those air In our manifesto, the one the one thing that was missing from your manifesto and seemed to cause a panic in the Conservative Party was the figures on what happens to people who have to fund their care in old age. And we have a question about it from Derek Griffin. Let's just have that, Mr Griffin. I'm just wondering, with gas to social care, you kind of spend your whole life obviously working hard to build up a nest egg and have a nice little pension and saving so you could be comfortable in your later life after you've retired. But if it's all going to be solved, taken away from you again, if Carrie's needed, then essentially what? Why should you even bother in the first place? Onda reminder that your manifesto said one hundred thousand pounds is all you'LL be left with the well and the figure that you're left with that moment is twenty three thousand pounds. So we're actually quadrupling that. But if you're sticking with one hundred thousand, if I just look att? I thought you changed that. I thought so. I thought you were going to have a upper limit. The one hundred thousand is a floor, David. Yes, Cap under floor. But you didn't mention the captain this way. Come on to that. If you didn't mention the manifesto that I'LL come on, think is not out of the question. I'm just way Wait. Look at the situation at the moment. If you need care, then if you've got more on twenty three thousand pounds and savings, you have to pay for that care. And if you need residential care, the value of your house will be taken into account. And so it's today that we see people sometimes having to sell their house in order to pay those bills. Now what we say is that asked, under the system we introduce, which is important because we need a sustainable system for the future. Given the aging population, if we do nothing, our social care system will collapse. We say that we will ensure that people are able to protect Mohr of their savings one hundred thousand pounds, that they will also not have to sell their house during their lifetime to pay for their care bills. But I also wanted a system that was fair across the generations, and I believe this is too. We said in our manifesto we'd consult on the details. I heard the scaremongering that came out after our manifesto was published on DH. As on DH, I set out one of the details that aspects that would have bean in the consultation on which is about having a cap on the absolute level. So there's a floor of one hundred thousand you can protect one hundred thousand on we'LL consult on what should be the cap of the absolute cap on the level of care call. Funny, funny thing to leave out the cap because it's rather important for people one hundred thousand pounds that you you keep. But whether you get rid of half a million or two hundred fifty thousand or that the manifested told you nothing and then you suddenly said, Oh, there'LL be a cap we won't charge you more than a certain ought to leave that out, that we set out the principles in our manifesto, which are the ones that I've just sent out in the answer, which is crucially, that it's fair across the generations that we enable people to have the knowledge and the comfort of knowing they won't have to sell their house in their lifetime to pay for their care. Very Clark wants come back on it. I just don't know because obviously, I mean, just from a personal perspective, I mean, you know the thing about the caps, I mean myself on my wife, for instance, we are actually both disabled. So I guess statistically, as we get older, we are maybe more likely to be the ones that needing to use that care. So are there any kind of safeguards or guarantees or something that you know? We're not going to be left bankrupting our retirement Basically, be a purely because off, you know, a condition that we have no control over what I want, what I want to do in relation to the details of the policy, how it actually works, including the level of that is to consult, consult with people consult with voters. Also consult with organizations, charities and others working with older people so that we ensure that we get that right. And I think that's a fair way to do it rather than just producing a figure. Now, I think it's important to have that consultation. If you can tell us what the floor ese now, why can't you tell us the cap? Because Theo, because we're talking about We're talking about two different things. Aren't we on the floor? I think it's important that we give people the protection of their savings, which is greater than it is today. That's why we've set that figure of one hundred thousand. But on the cap as to where you set that figures to the absolute figure that people pay amount that people pay. I think it's right that we have that consultation. We will consult, as I've just said to Barry with individuals, but also with organizations that deal with these issues that charities that work with older people to make sure that we get that at the right level. Okay. Victoria. Victoria, Let's go. Fifty nine. Sorry. Yes, you quick. We had a cap. A couple of years ago. Seventy nine thousand. Why can't we at least start with something around that figure? Well, the one we know manifesto. We said we weren't following the deal, not those of the Andrew Dilnot proposals. We weren't going to follow those Andrew dilnot proposals on. There were two reasons why the first is that those tended to protect people who work wealthier but didn't protect people who were on modest incomes. And secondly, it required payment out of taxation. And I actually think that if you're going to be fair across the generations, then we don't ask young people to be having their taxes increased in order to pay for the social care costs of somebody who made people who may be sitting on a very significant value in their house. Let's go. Victoria Davis. What is nurse for twenty six years to the tar? It expect her support in the light of another one percent pay increase. Theo, what we're looking at in terms of the National Health Service and ensuring that we can provide the National Health Service in the future is if we just look at how much money is now being spent on the N H s. In the five years to twenty twenty, we will be spending half of it alien pounds on the National Health Service. Now we're putting more money into the moment and we will continue to put more money in into the future into the N hs. But it it is important that we recognize, as you well know, is a nurse. The demands on the HSE are increasing A ll the time we recognize the work that the staff I do. But the nurses get paid less and less nurses, nurses get on increase and obviously some other payments is a really big groups of fourteen percent since two thousand ten. If you don't tell us, we can already rise that the person next to say the nose that I agree with, that my wage slips from two thousand nine reflect exactly what I'm earning today. So how can that be fair in light of what we job that we actually do? And I recognized the job that you do. But we have had to take we have no way have had to take some hard choices across the public sector in relation to public sector pay restraint we did that because of the decisions we had to take to bring public spending under control because it wasn't under control under the last Labour government on DH. I'm being honest with you in terms of saying that we will put more money into the HHS. But there isn't a magic money tree that we can shake that suddenly provides for everything that people want. You coming way, you cook and you cook it in and it just spending. But you also cut taxes for the rich. Wait, actually cutting N. H s spending. We're putting, in fact, record levels of funding overall into the National Health Service on we will continue to increase the funding for the National Health Service in government. So we're funding in countries, spend way mom on their health service, and we do. But we're given out for free. So why why we spend unless, Well, it's not. I mean, the figures do vary, but actually it's not the case that all other countries are spending more money on their N hs than we are. We are putting more funding into the N hs we're putting on. We will continue to do that, but I also want to do some other things in relation to the N hs. We have put into into a requirement that mental health should be given parity of esteem with physical health in the HSE. I think there's more money is going into it, but there's more for us to do. And in our manifesto we've set out a whole package of what we could do on mental health. It's not just about the money that's going into the HSE, which will increase its about ensuring that we're dealing in addressing the issues we need to. And I think mental health is something that's being put to one side for too long and not being given the attention it deserves. Going back to the nurses just for a moment. Do you think it's fair that the nurses get just a one percent increase year in you're out regardless of inflation, so they get porous as some of them, we're told, go to food banks. Is that fair? Do you feel, do you sleep happy that the public sector has being restrained in its page one percent increase? Of course there will be those working within the UN HS nurses and others who will get progression pay increase another special case, one without the other. One percent are they're not special case nurses compared with other people in the public sector. People in the public sector across all sorts of services are working very hard on some jobs that we want them to do because they are about looking after us about protecting us, about caring for us. But we have to look at public sector spending. We have to make sure that we're managing our money carefully because at the end of the day, as I say, there isn't a magic money tree that suddenly delivers all the money that everybody wants for the spending everybody wants. You may hear later on that you can ask for anything that you want to have money spent on, but actually you can't. It's not there. We have to ensure we manage your money. Taxpayersmoney carefully. A lot of things you mentioned mental out there. I'm just wondering. Does that include the work capability assessment in that with the mental alphas? Well, because I've just recently filed that assessment, just couldn't through mental health. There's a number of things you want just say your bit to your sitting together by chance or by chance. Okay, Well, say what you were going to say then gone well, basically again on mental health. I agree. It's so important to N. H s is the absolute shambles for mental health. At the moment I applied for n hs counseling about, I think, probably the end of twenty fifteen. My first appointment is next Tuesday. My next appointment is next Tuesday. I've been waiting a year and a half for this. And I have suffered so much over that year, in part because of the work capability assessment thing I'm partially sighted is well, I'm partially sighted. I have mental health problems and also I have other issues. So Dora shoot and I went into my assessment and I was asked in detail about suicide attempts and I came out crying because I was so upset because of the way I was treated by that nurse on DH. She came out after me. She forgotten to measure my eyesight. I'm partially sighted. She found time to met Teo, just, you know, insult me basically by asking for all these upsets. Cried that Minister. Look, I'm not going to make any excuses for the experience that you've had. That's why I think it is so important that we actually we do deal with mental health. You now both of you have raised two different issues. One is how we deal with mental health issues in the health service and the other is actually work capability Assessment. Andi, this is something where we are. We do look at improving what? How that assessment is taking place. But I know I know your ***. But I know that the issue of mental health is particularly difficult One to address in terms of those work capability assessments on the National Health Service and the other things we want to do with mental health in one of the things I want to do is ensure that there is better support in schools so that we have in individual member of staff, trained in schools who are able to that identify mental health problems and then know how to address them. And I know I was talking to a young woman only at the turn of the year. Who in school said nobody really know what to be able to do with her with her mental health problems and so she'd suffered as a result. If we can give people to support, they needed an earlier stage. It's better for everybody. As I say, I make no excuses for the experience that you I want to know the right woman in arms there. I'm sorry. We've got to go on. Very got ten more minutes with the prime Minister. Yes. I think it's best say that mental health funding is one of your sound bites whenever people ask you about the N hs. But it really concerned me. A couple of weeks ago you were formed when a lady challenged you about her benefits for learning difficulties. You turned around and gave an answer about mental health funding. And it really concerned me that prime Minister and potential future prime minister of the UK apparently doesn't understand the difference between a learning disability and a mental health condition. In fact, when the lady first spoke to me, she talked about learning disabilities and mental health, and she'd actually raised mental health herself. But I recognize that this particular issues that she had was about learning disabilities. But look, this is both of These are areas where we need to ensure that we've got the ability for people's needs to be identified at an urn as earlier stages possible on. Then the support goes in all, obviously all the evidences, the earlier you Khun, get that support to somebody earlier. You can identify on issue then then the better it is for that individual, but also thie better. It will be three for the rest of their lives. That's why on the mental health front, I say I'm so keen to ensure that we get more support in terms of training in schools. There's other things I want to do is well but get including in the workplace. Actually, because too often that I think there is discrimination in relation to mental health in the workplace. So I want to bring in a new mental health act, get scrapped the old mental health act, but also changed the equalities legislation so the discrimination or mental health will not be possible in the workplace. Robert, wait, let's have your questions way will be voting Tory, but I'm not happy with the foreign aid budget on especially why we're giving money to North Korea. Can you explain that place? Well, we I think the commitment we've given on the foreign aid budget is an important one, and I think it's an important one for two reasons. First of all, we are one of the the We're the fastest growing second fastest growing economy in the G seven last year. We are on the most significant economies in the world. I think it's right that we say that we help those those people who are less well off than we are in those developing countries. There are millions of children, millions of girls being educated today, who would not be educated were it not for the foreign aid money that we're giving. But it's also about something else because it means that in certain states it's possible to help to develop the economy. The governance of that state on that is a benefit to us in protecting us as United Kingdom for a whole range of reasons. If we couldn't stabilize some certain countries, then that's going to be better for us both into in terms of security. For example, Robert Wait, do not very carefully at individual countries and individual payments. North Korea that that is that is one of the worst places going surely Well, it's certainly not somewhere that I would suggest that is somewhere that one holds up as a paragon of virtue. I think. What the DPRK, what North Korea has bean doing in terms of its missiles on DH, its nuclear situation on DH. You know, we had another ballistic missile test only a few days ago were very clear that we want to see change those changes in North Korea. I think it's important for China to be influencing those wearing career. Does North Korea receive money from the aid budgets from the Well, the gentleman had suggested that it that it is. I don't know the details of that million pounds in twenty fifteen four million Barn. Yeah. Okay, you, sir, in the reddened white checked shirt. So you're you're the prime minister of the country and you don't know where that foreign aid is going to. Weather is going to the government or it's actually going to benefit its people. Well, if we're if we are putting money into when we put money into countries, we change the way that we spend the foreign aid budget in the past foreign aid budget. It was all too often just given to governments on, you know, the stories in the past of the way the money was then spent. So we work through NGOs. We work through organizations that are helping people. So money that we put into countries is targeted on things like education on health, on welfare, of people, on support for the people who are the most vulnerable. Okay, a brief one from user earlier foreign aid money. Can you explain why it is that a great deal more of our largess goes to the rest of the world is not in the form of British manufacturers rather than of cash. It's much easier to avoid having a field hospital pocketed then it is a few million of different of cash. And it's also the case that if this money fed its way through British manufacture Trin and provided British jobs, there would be much less contention concerning the sums of money you can you answer briefly, right? First of all, some of the money we're talking about is not about buying kit in the sense of things that will be manufactured here that just said If you're talking about education, it's about providing the facility is where children who would not otherwise be educated are being educated. But we do give support to countries in ways other than just the money s. So there are some countries where we are indeed, our military are working on things like field hospitals on providing those directly on if we want to improve British manufacturing and manufacturing around the world. That's why I want to ensure we get good trade agreements around the whole of the world when we leave the European Union. Okay. Sally Jones. Yeah. Yeah, far away. State schools are underfunded and teachers of over where? Why are you putting money into grammar? Schools with state schools are beneficial to all abilities. Okay, Theo, suddenly what were what we're doing? The grammar schools will be within the state sector. They might be free schools there, like the others. Other types of schools. We want a diversity of education because education is so important. I want every on stir to get the best possible start in life. And that means every youngster getting the education that is right for them. We are actually putting more money you said we're putting money into impossible for possibility for grammar schools to be set up, Yes, but we're also increasing the overall amount of money that goes into schools and ensuring there's a fairer distribution of that money across the country. But I believe it's important that, you know, if we know that there are good schools out there at the moment, we have a law that says you can't set up any more of these types of schools despite the fact that they're good. I think that's wrong. I should think we should allow those news grammar schools to be set up. So we ensure every child gets the education that's right for them and the best possible start in life theme school that I work in by twenty twenty. Every single child in that school will receive eight hundred eight ninety eight pounds per year less the tundra labor gone in twenty twenty. My question to you is, why do you care less about the children in the Labour government? I don't care about the truth, Theo Dane per child hurt. You're saying the per child per pupil spending has fallen on him by twenty year old figure. But how much Gate two hundred ninety? Okay, made the point that there's There's two things I want to do because I do care about education. As I've just said in response to Sally, I think it is so important for every youngster to get the best start in life. That's why we will be putting more money overall into the schools will be ensuring the pupil premium is there for those children who are disadvantaged. But we will also ensure that there is a fairer distribution ofthe school fund because at the moment, as you probably know, there are some schools that get twice the amount of money per pupil than others. Other schools in other parts of the country. I want to see a fairer system of funding on DH. In doing that, we will make sure that no school sees a budget cut when that's affair of fundings introduced for getting a good quality. Education isn't just about the money going into schools. It's about ensuring that we're encouraging people to come into the teaching profession. So we're gonna give loan student loan forgiveness to people who stayed, come into teaching and stay in teaching. It's about a diversity of types of school. So is the innovation and creativity and education. So we're genuinely and Khun saying this country that how far you go in life depends not on where you come from or who your parents are. But it depends on your talents and your abilities and your willingness to work hard. Okay, we've got a couple of minutes. Mandy, hold, Let's have your coat. Why haven't you signed a letter to Donald Trump condom in his decision to pull out of the Paris climate change agreement something which theme from which the president's in Germany in France and Italy have done yes on DH? I haven't because I I actually have spoken to Donald Trump and told him that the UK believes in the Paris agreement on DH that we didn't want the United States to leave the Paris agreement. The G seven leaders sat round the table last week on DH, spoke Teo and told Donald Trump that the six of us told him that we believe the Paris agreement was an important international agreement on climate change, that we wanted the United States to stay in it. I've spoken to him. I spoke to him last night about this to the Canada and Japan. Haven't signed the letter either. What you say? What did he say? He says he's taken the decision because he thinks it's in the best interest of America. I say that the Paris agreement actually is important for us globally in terms of dealing with climate change. That's why the UK supported it. And it's why the UK is continuing. Your your your negotiating. You're negotiating our departure from the You wouldn't have Bean sensible, imprudent to go along with France and Germany and Italy and sign a letter to Donald Trump instead of it being released that you just said you were disappointed by his decision. It's not a question of whether or not we should go along with somebody else way. Take independent decisions. Is the UK I spoke to Donald Trump? I've told him my views from the UK is position Last week. I told him last night what our views are. We remain committed to the Paris Agreement. We continue to think it's important for dealing with climate change internationally. Well, that I'm afraid, ends the first half of this programme. Prime Minister Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And now would you please welcome the leader of the Labour Party? Jeremy Corbyn. Good evening. Good evening, Mr Corbin. First question to you comes from Karen Hepworth, please. Why should the British public trust you on appears to negotiate Brexit? Why should the British public trust you and your peers to negotiate? Brexit, Thank you for inviting me here tonight. And I'm very sorry. This is not a debate. This is a serious of questions. I think it's a shame the Prime Minister has weighed very clear on brexit referendum took place. A decision was reached. We're leaving European Union. Secondly, we will immediately legislate in office to guarantee rights of EU nationals remain in this country. Secondly, we will negotiate with the European Union to guarantee trade, access the European markets and protection off the conditions that we've achieved through EU membership. Because it's crucial Protect our manufacturing industry. Your point about a negotiating team? We have a great team. We have a great team of very experienced people. Kiss Thoma is one of the leading lawyers of this country. I think I can trust care Starmer with negotiations, Mohr than some other people who are undertaking those negotiations on question time. Last night, your international trade secretary Barry Gardeners, said that Britain would absolutely, absolutely was his word be poorer after leaving the You do agree with that, I don't think we necessarily would be poorer. I hope that we will retain, as I said, the trade access. And I hope also that we will have a Labour government that will be investing in a growing economy in this country and challenging the terrible levels of inequalities exist in this country at the same time. You, sir David Cameron, went so D'You on us for a few concessions. You got nothing because they knew that it would stay. And he would. I want to stay in the U If if they I understand your position that no, Dale is about Dale, then you've got no chance. I've made it very clear. We accept the results, the referendum, and I think it's important to go from that point. I've made the point also about the need for trade access the European Union on DH. There is, of course, an interest in that on both sides of the channel. Most of our big manufacturing companies have supply chains here and in Europe on vice a versa. There is a mutual interest in this, but we're not approaching these negotiations by threatening Europe with setting up some kind of low tax haven for big corporations in this country, where instead saying we want to continue that trading relationship outside the European Union. But I think a sensible relationship with them is very important, and I will approach those negotiations to build up trust, which gives us that sensible relationship in the future. What, what what exactly what exactly do you think the British people meant? Oh, voted to leave And what do you understand by leave the you? What does it actually mean to you to tell you what? What what is it that matters in that leaving the European Union means we withdraw from the Treaty of Rome? We withdraw from the nineteen seventy two decision that was made by the British government of that time to join with the European Union. It means that there is no longer a legislative authority over UK law within the U or a parliamentary consent for it. It means we have to have an independent and separate relationship with the European Union. And I think we've got two years to negotiate it. And I can't wait to get started to make sure that we do retain manufacturing, industry and service industry jobs in Britain that are so essential to our economy and our economic growth threatening will not work. Is your aim to remain thief? Is your range remaining the single market? Do you think that's possible? Our aim is tohave a tariff free trade access to Europe. I think we should put it in those terms rather than anything else at this stage. Okay, you, sir, Over there on the far side. No, the man over there, That's it because he's spoken already. Thank you. Well, will you rule out doing a dale with Nicholas Sturgeon in the event of a hung parliament? Because you will be negotiating, as you would expect with EU at that time. We are fighting this election to win, and we're mounting a fantastic campaign in order to get that message across of how different our society and our politics could be. We are contesting all the constituencies. We are not looking to do deals with anybody. We are not forming a coalition government. I want to form a Labour government with a majority to carry out this amazing program which can give so much hope. Thank you. So expected. But it wasn't the answer to my question. Well, I thought you know what? Your question was about deals, and I said, No deals. Okay, I'm going to get something else. You said there in the blue shirt. Given the absence of the European Court of Justice, how will you uphold government accountability? Post brexit on environmental issues, for example, air pollution were already breaching limits. European Court of Justice holds us to account what will happen when we leave. I want to ensure that the environmental protocols are adopted into UK law. I think it's very important to do that. It's also absolutely crucial for the future of all of us that we have agreements with all of Europe, be they part of the EU or not on air pollution, on air quality, on sea pollution, on DH protection, our season, our natural environment. And I'm very determined to achieve that. And since you raised the subject utterly deplore, Donald trumps decision to withdraw from the Paris climate change. I would sign a letter with any other leader that would give for that straightaway. Let's let's let's come home for a moment of Steve Rod. Let's have your question, please. A local business. I'm faced with the possibility of high corporation tax rates. Obviously, we've alluded to the uncertainty the Brexit's going to create over the next couple of years. Today you've talked about creating jobs. I just wonder how I can have confidence that those jobs while there isa small business Khun create those jobs. Well, I don't know how big your small businesses so I could miss Mrs Small micro bigness business. This big zapping imply five people small business, but it could grow good. Let's hope it that's growing in uncertain times. That's the prob city. What was Just just specify again what your problems with the proposals that Labour's making well, Obviously it sze the rising corporation tax. It's the uncertainty of Brexit and the outcome from Brexit. It's it's planning ahead. Basically, my problem is okay on then. Obviously we've got the personal taxation issues that you know create other issues that further down the line. I'm sure you recognize there are huge problems in the funding of our public services. Health education on these have to be addressed and dealt with. We have a fully costed and fully funded manifesto here on that will cost yes. And we will raise corporation tax up to twenty six p by the end ofthe the parliament and that will be actually two percent lower than it was in two thousand ten and well, actually less than the G seven average. What it will also dio is not raised. Corporation tax for small and medium business is by that amount, some will have no rise whatsoever. And we have had a very interesting and very good discussions with a lot of small businesses about their problems accessing capital their problems of growing because banks don't like them and not interested in them on DH, the need to have an investment strategy for this country. So on top of that, we will also be forming a national investment bank to improve infrastructure all across the country on DH developed new high technology industries which I think are the future of this country, unharnessed or heart. Let the people with the skills actually developed the jobs and developed the industries in this country. And so, yes, we are asking the very biggest corporations to pay a bit more. But I tell you what, I think it's worth it. It's worth it so that any young person can go to university and not leave with debt. It's worth it to make sure school head teachers don't have to collect at the school gate in order to pay the teachers salaries. I think it's worth it for a better society in which everyone can achieve something. Okay, rise. Come back, Teo. I'm also working. I'm going to an accountancy firm. So we already did with large businesses as well as potential clients and existing flights. My choice, basically about the choice of my clients is a conservative government on the labour government. Onda difference as you say, two percent looking at on the European wide. But it's a nine percent difference between what the Conservatives are proposing corporation tax for larger businesses on what the Labour government is. That's a fair question, but I would simply say this. All of your clients, I'm sure, require workers at various times they require skilled workers at various times if we as a society don't look at the problems throughout our school and education system on investing it properly, where are skilled workers going to come from tomorrow? Where are going to be the consumers off tomorrow? I think it's time that we looked at in inequality in our society and used our public investment in order to improve services on give real chances to everybody. Poverty is a waste. People who can't get the education they wanted, the qualifications they want. We all lose. It's a question of whether the community gets together to support everybody, or we just let the rich get richer and the rest suffer. What's the Theo? What's the overall increase in the tax? Take that Labour, if it comes to power, would would expect what, what kind of percentage on the current tax case? Forty eight billion Mohr Hamlet. What percent is that of what comes in the forty eight billion Mohr, which is quite a small proportion off the total? The point I'm making is that's what we've got here. Is funding off it through corporation tax funding off it through some new taxes, ninety five percent, ninety five percent of the people of this country will pay no more in tax or national insurance. Companies will be asked to pay a bit more. And I think it's the right thing to do because it does give us a growing economy that the figures for the country's air hold the economy as a whole is it's very nearly a ten percent increase in tax take by the government. That brings me to a question from Jack Rouse. If I'm a jack Rows, please. Where is Jack Gross? Yes. Speak away. Speak away. Hijack his Labour's manifesto. Really Stick wish list or they just elected to Santa Claus. Theo, I need you to read it. I think it is a serious and realistic document that addresses the issues that many people in this country face. We've been brave enough to to put it out there with a ll. The policies that are in it, how we deal with the school funding crisis, how we make sure preschool, all children two to four get thirty hours, child care per week or opportunities for preschool play and education. How we bring back the educational maintenance allowance so that youngsters who would be deterred from staying on at school. We're going on to get a levels or other qualifications on DH that those who could get into university won't end up with debts of fifty or sixty thousand at the end of it. This is nothing unusual in many other countries in the world. I think it's time for us to invest in our future. The other crisis home they mentioned, David, is the question ofthe health, the question of mental health on the question of social care. If we don't address it, what happens? What happens is more people suffer. What happens is more women usually give up work to care for those who cannot be cared for because we're not putting enough money into it. And those were the mental health crisis. Suffer alone on DH. Don't get the help and support that they want. We have to respect the needs of people on DH. Frankly, challenge all of us to say if we want to live in a society that genuinely cares for all, we've got to be prepared to deal with issues of inequality and pay for it, and I'm prepared to do that. Okay, Yeah, it's a question of funding. It and I'm thinking of last time labor over in government and left to know that the chancellor's office saying We've no money left what I would say For the past seven years of austerity, that austerity has hit public sector workers with the one percent cap. It has hit all our schools and public services. It has caused a housing crisis. And you know what? The very richest in our society have got richer. There's been Maura more tax giveaways at the top end on Maura. More charges at the other end. It's time the re balancing our manifesto is a serious, well thought out document that I believe is getting a lot of support on. People are very excited by the idea of how we could do things differently. Woman, you say this manifesto serious and well thought out, and you speak about creating an equal society free from racism and anti Semitism. How could I believe a word of this when you was party leader have failed to expel one of your own members? Can Livingston for his under Semitic remarks? I think there is no place for anti Semitism anywhere in our society and certainly not in our party members have been suspended. If they've committed any remarks, he's not really seem to be a conspiracy to bay often anti Semitic nature. Those that have done that are suspended. We have a process that is independent of me within the party which investigates these on makes a decision on it. I deplore racism in any form. What so ever? The way in which the Jewish people have suffered down the centuries, the Holocaust and all that went with it was the most appalling stain in the history of mankind. On DH, I believe we have to fight racism in any form with every fiber of our being. A society that cannot challenge racism is society that is heading for division. I will not tolerate it if it's something that's so important to you how you suffice with only suspending him for a short period of time. How is it not enough to expel it? Has Bean suspended on DH? Further investigations may or may not happen after the election, but he is suspended from membership, but he's suspended so that the investigation and take the woman there on the gangway. You? Yes, You. Um I heard you recently commented that black and ethnic minorities potential has been like locked under conservatives, and you plan to kind of free up and unlock it. So I just want some clarification as to how exactly planned to do it. Sorry I didn't fully here. The question is a camera right in front of. So about that, I said. There was a recent comment that I read in news about you purporting that black and ethnic minorities potential has been locked under conservatives. So I just want some clarification as to how you'd free up or a knock it or help in that regard. The issues are off poverty in Britain. The issues are off differential levels of spending in inner city areas compared to other areas. And there are serious issues about the number of young black people, particularly young men who are part of the criminal justice system. End up in youth use Castillo, you using youth justice institutions or those that end up in mental health institutions. I think we have to look very seriously at levels off racism within our society. If you like racism that almost oven institutionalized nature that has to be looked at on one of the issues we put forward was considered how difficult it can be for somebody with an African name or a Muslim name to get a short list to get an interview for a job compared to others. And so one suggestion it's a suggestion it may become a policy is that we should have blind applications for jobs where there's no name involved, as many description of your skills and your ability Andhra qualifications so that they can be a fair assessment of that person because we are a multi ethnic, multi lingual, multicultural society. If it doesn't treat everybody equally and give everybody a decent chance, then we end up with poverty. We end up with discrimination and we end up with divisions. I want to see a country that comes together, and he's not divided and apart by poverty or by discrimination. Okay, Theo way comeback to education and the economy in a moment. But let's have this question from Adam Murgatroyd. Please Murgatroyd. If Britain was under imminent threat from nuclear weapons, how would you react? I would do everything I can to ensure that any threat is actually dealt with earlier on by negotiations on by talks so that we do adhere to our obligations under the Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty that we do encourage China in its work and tried to bring about six party talks in resolving the issue in North Korea on we do follow the leads that President Obama took in doing a deal with Iran, which would result in them not developing the nuclear capability. I think the idea ofthe anyone ever using a nuclear weapon, anyone but where in the world is utterly appalling and terrible result in the destruction ofthe the lives and communities and environment for millions off people and so I would be actively engaged to ensure that danger didn't come about. I would also be very aware of other dangers that we face. Cyber attacks hit our National health service a couple of weeks ago. The dreadful terrorist attack in Manchester indicates the danger off individual acts of terrorism that Khun take lives. We have to be secure here. We have to protect our society and our country. But we also have to engage in the rest of world to make sure we don't have huge ungoverned spaces such as in Libya, which can become the basis ofthe some terrible events that were going to take the lives of many other people who have to deal with those issues here on globally. That is the function of responsible government. Your, um, Theo party. Your party is committed to renewing Trident. Are you saying they're no circumstances in which you use a nuclear weapon? I'm saying that our party has committed to redoing. Tried on. That was a decision taken by a party conference indeed taken by Parliament. I would view the idea of having to use a nuclear weapon as something that was reserved, resulting in a failure in the whole world's diplomatic system. There has to be no first use. That has to be a process of engagement to bring about, ultimately global nuclear disarm. It is not gonna happen quickly. It's not gonna happen easily, But we have to have that wish. You cannot countenance a world in which we could all be destroyed by nuclear. You say no first use and you wouldn't use you wouldn't push the button in first use in retaliatory use. Would you you well, nuclear weapons that you were weapon weapon is there and I say no, first use off the weapon. And I think that has to be the basis on what we do. Adam, does that answer your question? You won't come back on it incredibly concerning that you wouldn't ever commit. Commit to doing that is our safety that we need to look out first and foremost any government. But what particularly nice means that Trident isn't just for heaven forbid a potential Corbin government. It goes long beyond that. You know, many, many decades is the future. So when you're making the decision, whether to support this or not is not just for right here right now is threat sunken face in the future way point, but way have to do everything. We can obviously protect ourselves. But the best protection is having good and reasonable relationships with the rest of world. So we don't descend into a mentality where there are military blocs starting threatening each other. And I'm utterly determined to do everything I can to bring about a more peaceful world. I've spent a lot of my life with Yuen and other organizations trying to bring about principal no first years, principles of disarmament and principles ofthe bring about peace around the world. That surely is something we can all work for. I think we have to recognize that there is deep, deep inequality and injustice in the world. But the threats are, as I said, a cybersecurity on terrorism. The other threats are actually off environmental disaster around the world on large numbers of people fleeing from environmental disaster, in effect, environmental refugees. Which is why I was so disappointed in President Trump's decision, particularly in view of what been achieved by people working together to try and protect and sustain this planet. We've only got one planet. Let's get together when we live on it and above all, let's not destroy it. Can we just come thing? Just come back to the nuclear issue? You are prime Minister. You've said you would have no first use. You wouldn't countenance Britain's nuclear deterrent, which your party is restoring rebuilding, maintaining you wouldn't have a first use on. That raises the question, he said. Under direct attack, would you use it in retaliation? As prime minister, you're speaking to the country about what you would do with the most expensive defense weapon that we have. Are you saying you would never use it through. The most effective use of it is not to use it because it's there. Sorry. You're dodging the question on True. I'm saying, Are you saying there are no circumstances under which you use any circumstances? Where anyone's have prepared to use a nuclear weapon is disastrous for the whole planet. That is why there has to be a policy of disarmament and globally. But through a multi natural multilateral policy, not a unilateral, that's the ideal. But what about the reality where you are faced with the prospect that you may have to Theo? Just just asking for a simple reality. The reality is that we have to obviously try to protect ourselves. We would not use. It is first use. Andi. If we did use it, millions are going to die. You have to think this thing through. On the side of the second senses are time. All right? Yeah. You said that you would You use a second youth. Would you allow North Korea or so media in Iran to bombers and then say, Oh, we better start talking. You be till eight. No, you don't. No, We won't allow them to do it? Of course not. Because what that is that is why I made the point a short time ago about the need for President Obama's agreement with Iran to be upheld. It's quite important, actually on also to promote disarmament in career. That is difficult. I appreciate, but impossible. Well, impossible. Just trying to do to you up there. Yeah. You just get a massive wish when you've got one of the biggest arsenals by your side. I'd rather have it and not use it, then not have it all, especially in today's day and age. You want to comment on that? All right. Anybody? The woman there? Yes. Let's just stick with us. They will move on. Yes, I have a question regarding human rights, but use your question just before. I don't know Sam. Why Everyone in this room seemed so keen on killing millions of people. Theo is moving on from that particular thing that murdering people. And I want to ask a specific question about your immigration policy. You've mentioned that you want to reunite families specifically that have been forced apart by Theresa most current migration policies myself. My husband's recording this in America is he's at work. He was departed in December. He was told he was skew highly educated, despite studying here. Getting an undergraduate and a master's degree invested a lot in this country. I want to know where the you would consider reducing the financial threshold for family migration to be further in line with the national minimum wage or living wage. Yes, our manifesto has addressed this issue. It is very painful, some of the decisions that made where the frankly arbitrary level of income has chosen couples a split apart. Families split apart on people like the person you're talking about have invested a huge amount of time and energy into this country, then removed from this country who loses. We all lose. The family loses, the children lose. We lose as society. On day, we will change those immigration laws so that they can be proper family reunion. I think that has to be the right and sensible thing to do. Are you in favor of you in favor of reducing immigration overall into this country? What I think will happen is this that way we have managed migration from outside Europe, which is based on family re union on DH skill, needs or investment we have at the moment free movement from within the European Union that ends. We leave the European Union so we'LL then have to be managed migration from Europe. We have to also recognize that those of migrated this country made a massive contribution to our society. I the health of all of us, has depended. It depends on the work that's done by many people that made their homes here. What I think will happen is that will probably be some reduction in European migration because we will also prevent there being recruitment ofthe groups of low paid workers from Central Europe to come here to undermine existing conditions that are often not very good themselves on DH damage the life chance of people in this country and be not actually very good for those who have been brought in. So we'll end overseas only recruitment and end those contractor arrangements by which people have brought in, particularly in the construction industry way say so I'll just have another issue which we do have to address and that is the skill shortage and skill problem in Britain because we have not invested enough in industrial training. We've not invested enough in skill training with no invested enough in training Mohr doctors or more nurses in this country. Until we do that, then we've got a big problem. And so our whole approach down manifesto is about investment for the future. And I think, what what your brexit's extra shadow brexit sexually should say Kiss, Thomas said. Which is that being a huge amount of immigration over the last ten years? People understand that concerned about it. I think it should be reduced when people voted Brexit. Do you think immigration was at the forefront of their mind? I think it was a big factor in it. I don't think it was the only factor, but it was a big factor. There is also an issue that communities and local government are often not sufficiently funded to deal with groups of people coming in and so we would restore what Gordon Brown had in two thousand nine. It's a migrant impact fund. I wanted to more people come to you and then we go on to the question Can we get Mike? Yes, far away. Mr Corbyn on. We've talked about nuclear weapons before. But one thing that worries me more at the moment as somebody who's grown up in a family business, is the changes, the minimum wage. I read your manifesto yesterday on you are planning on increasing minimum wage to ten pounds. Now. The current plan for the national living wage on forecasts say that two sixty thousand people could lose their jobs because of those increases in wages. So, firstly, how many jobs? What statistic have you been given by your economists? Or whoever worked for you as to how many jobs will be lost if it goes up to ten, if it goes up to ten pounds an hour? And secondly, how will you help that three million micro businesses in the United Kingdom who employ many people the minimum wage and already struggle to do that fair, fair pointed questions when minimum wage was first introduced by the Labour government after nineteen ninety seven elect, there were a lot of similar concerns and predictions which turned out not to be the case, and in fact, there was not any substantial number of job was. It was the best thing that has been called. The wage increases were so small. You look at the economic comments around that time the wage increases was so small, all the commentator said, that this is a massive waves change. There's such a bigger margin of error now in your policies than what was brought in in nineteen ninety nine. Come back, come back to point. What we're proposing is ten pound an hour by twenty twenty. That would be a living wage that would reduce department work and pensions bill somewhat because you'd be reducing in work benefit payments to people being paid more. There are many big companies that could well afford to pay it and shouldn't be just paying the minimum. There are companies like I suspect, yours, small companies that would have problems. We fully recognized that we were therefore work with them either to give them tax relief for support in order to make sure that the living wage the real living wage was paid. But they didn't close down as a result of it because as a society we have six million people earning less than the living wage or million people on zero hours. Contracts we have wage levels is proportion of national income actually falling at the present time. I think more money in the pockets will mean people are better off, but also be on economic boost itself. I absolutely recognize the problems for smaller micro businesses. That's why it would be a past way to it for them, with support from the government to achieve it. Edward, I think we have met Robby's because Mr Corbin just mentioned the issue. Edward Robbins, Where is Edward? Robin's? Put your hand up. Where are you? There? Yes. Good. Yeah. Zero hours. Contracts provide an easy way for students like myself to get casual, flexible work. How will scrapping these contracts affect US labour policy to strap zero control? First of all, zero hours contracts for many people mean a lifetime of stress on a lifetime of great difficulty. Imagine what it's like. It was Your sole source of income is a zero hours contract job. You wake up in the morning, you look at the mobile phone and see if your employer wants you that day or not that weak or not, you don't know what your income is going to be Now. I do understand the point about students and others. Some companies. Some employers say Okay, we need people in a bar in a shop, in a packaging place. Those kind of enterprises. We will pay you x number of hours per week on a flexible basis so that you will have an average pay off, say, ten hours per week. That means those people are loyal to the company. Those people know what their income is going to be on. That seems to me a much fairer way of doing it. So then have some security of what's going on on. There are some employees that do that in towns with a large student population with students, and it works quite well. What's your reaction? Well well, I'm not going to stop you working. It's OK. Well, I was talking about more coming from us having the option for students and us. Go two, go two employees and say we want to work this time in this time. We're not just getting told you you're working. This money are working when you choose. You're the so called gig economy. Like riding for delivery services. Yes. I think the agreement should be that you come to a discussion with the employer I can work for three hours on a Monday six thousand Thursday, two hours at a weekend, something like that. And that's my work pattern. It's not simple to manage for any employer. I fully understand that, but it does give security to the individual. It also gives the employer a wide range of work. Workers that were working and will be loyal to that employ you, said the back. Why have you never regarded? The IRA is terrorist? I have deplored yl acts of terrorism by anybody in Northern Ireland or anywhere else. And I think the Good Friday agreement it was a huge achievement was brought about when both communities recognized their shared but different passed on. Brought about the idea off a power sharing government in Northern Ireland. I think that was an enormous achievement on DH. It's been copied elsewhere in the world as a way forward. I don't approve of any terrorism, any sort or any terrorist acts of any sort. It only divides communities and kills people. For Theo, they did kill a lot of people, didn't like all deaths wrong. All killing is wrong. We have to develop and we did in northern Ireland eventually a very effective priest process. And I think we should pay tribute to those in the unis community as well as those of the nationalist community, for coming together to bring about that peace process. It was a truly remarkable experience. Okay. You sir? Yes. You didn't want to speak to me. Yeah. Yeah. Yo, hand up. You've got the microphone over your head. Your eyes. What? You said you didn't support the Ioway. You've also supported a mass and other terrorist organisations. Eighty, expect the British people to vote for you to go into number ten when you sucked, then support. And then we see you. I have not supported any of those organisations. What I've said is, and I'm sure you'd probably agree with it. But if you're to bring about a peace process anywhere in the Middle East Bay in Ireland, be in a different situation say Columbia or anywhere else. That has to be a coming together of Theo, billionaire people, women and children. You talking to them? There has to be Well, I was talking to representatives off the other Republican movement. Yes, actually so is the government at the same time in Paisley was indeed thrown out of parliament when he told the government told Margaret Thatcher she was actually talking to them. You know what I voted? The Paisley shouldn't be thrown out of parliament, so I thought his voice should be heard in Parliament. You have to bring about a peace process by talking to people that you don't agree with. You just talk amongst friends thing. Are you gonna keep poking the man in front of you? You want him to speak me again? What? Wait. What do you want to speak? Are you trying to speak? I think it's totally but what I can do. Okay. Yeah. You've talked to these people in the past. You talked earlier and we'll talk about the nuclear option. Talking is the way you want to go. David often starts at the end of programs tongued public to press the red button. Are you saying you will never, ever under any circumstances press the red button? I think we've discussed this at some length about the aspirations we all have. I do not want to be responsible for destruction. Billions of people, neither you Therefore we have to wait just to bring back to economics. It's all very well for a socialist to stand there with his very nicely read book and say We're going to fund all these lovely programs by taking more money from big business. But what's your plan for the economy when those businesses turn around and say, Okay, you can keep your high taxes will go elsewhere? Well, Theo, you look at the business is we're talking about are actually doing very well. They've done extremely well over the past six years because their tax have been cut a great deal. I think we have to look at the problems of our public services. We have to look at the issues off what kind of economic future we have. We cannot go on being a low waged economy, underspending on our public services, investing less than any other industrialized country. Enough